# Ecological system of prey predators

## Introduction
Population dynamics is a branch of mathematics that studies the evolution of the number of individuals within a population, taking into account the influence of the environment and inter-species interactions. It can contribute to the preservation of ecosystems. In this report, the study focuses on an ecological system consisting of two species (prey and predators), and subsequently includes an intermediate species. Population sizes evolve continuously over time and are governed by differential equations and their initial state. The project aims to understand the population variations of a prey-predator pair using the Lotka-Volterra equations and a computer simulation using Python.

## The Lotka-Volterra prey-predator model
The Lotka-Volterra prey-predator model is a mathematical model that describes the interaction between two species: prey and their predators. It was independently developed by Alfred Lotka and Vito Volterra in the 1920s. The model assumes that the population of prey grows exponentially in the absence of predators but decreases in the presence of predators. Similarly, the population of predators decreases in the absence of prey but increases in the presence of prey. The model is based on differential equations that describe the growth rates of prey and predator populations as a function of population sizes and rates of interaction between the two species. The model is often used in ecology to study the dynamics of populations of interacting species and can provide important insights for the management and conservation of ecosystems.

## General Description of the Program

The simulation is presented as a graphical interface in which the user can choose the distribution of obstacles, the size of the chessboard, the number of prey and predators at time step zero, and the presence or absence of an intermediate species with the parameters relative to these species. I used the graphical module integrated in Python tkinter. Other modules were necessary for me, including numpy for arrays or the exponential function, random for random management, and scipy.integrate for the odeint function that allowed me to solve the Lotka-Volterra equations.

Graphical interface: The program displays a grid with finite dimensions and a variable number of cells according to the user's wishes. The opposite edges meet each other. Below the grid, there are two buttons, one to allow the evolution of the automaton with a limited number of steps in time, and one to quit the simulation before the end. It is also possible for the user to place obstacles on the grid to influence the movement of the populations, with a right click, as long as the cell is considered empty.

To allow the program to know the state of a cell, a dictionary was used with all the possible states during the simulation (prey, predator, empty, obstacle, intermediate species). At each function call, the array that characterizes each cell is updated. If a cell is occupied by any species, it represents only one individual of that species, contrary to the indications in the statement of this project.

Furthermore, I would like to emphasize that in the absence of knowledge of the use of the tkinter library, I was inspired by the epidemic propagation program found in reference 6 to display my cellular automaton and create my function to place obstacles.

Rules for the evolution of cells: There are four types of functions that characterize the change in my cellular automaton:
* The movement function, which is unique to each species but has the same principle. It focuses on an individual, then counts the number of individuals of each species to choose which direction to move (Northwest, Northeast, Southwest, Southeast of the chessboard). Indeed, predators move to the area where there are the most prey, including the populations of the intermediate species. As for prey, they flee predators like the intermediate species. And the intermediate species circulates towards areas with the most prey and the least predators.
* The reproduction function exists in two forms depending on the presence or absence of the intermediate species. It solves the Lotka-Volterra equations, counting the population sizes before, and takes the difference between the size of the new and old generation, which represents the "newborns." They are "born" next to one of their congeners. In the case where three species interact, the only difference is that the Lotka-Volterra equations are solved three times (between prey-intermediate species, prey-predator, and intermediate species-predator) instead of once, with the population sizes summed between the three populations to be correctly distributed.
* The death function works on the same principle as the reproduction function, except that it removes the first individuals from the board.
* The hunting function, like the reproduction and death functions, has two forms. The rule is simple: if a prey finds itself in the immediate surroundings of a predator, it is "eaten". With the intermediate species, we add that prey can be eaten by the intermediate species and that the intermediate species can be devoured by predators.

The algorithm: After initializing the cellular automaton, the different individuals will be randomly distributed. Each click on the step button will call the iterate function, which will display the number of steps and call two functions: phase and draw. The first uses the number of steps to call other functions such as movement, reproduction, or death, while the hunting function is Call at each time step. All of this information is stored in an array. And the second one uses the information from the array to update the cellular automaton.
